# arete-progress-reports

This project addresses the problem of notifying parents of the progress their children have made in their gymnastics classes by automating the process for sending progress reports via email to the gymnasts' parents. This is done by collecting input from gymnastics coaches via Google Forms where they enter scores and comments for each of their students/gymnasts in their various classes. Each of the many classes has a different skills list which may be updated periodically. When a coach submits scores for one of their gymnasts, a record is added to a corresponding Google Sheet for each class. When scores are ready to be sent to the gymnasts' parents, the head coach or end user opens a Google Sheet containing a list of all the classes as well as a list of all the gymnasts and their parent contact information. The end user selects checkboxes next to the classes for which they want to send progress reports then click a button to send. A series of prompts confirm that the user input is correct and the progress report emails are generated and sent to the parents. 

The emails utilize a generic HTML template for the base outline. However, the table containing the gymnast's scores is generated dynamically using the corresponding scores Sheet rather than having a static template for each of the many gymnastics classes that often have their skills lists updated. The email is formatted using a simple CSS file. 

The most difficult part of this project was matching each gymnast's contact information with their class and scores. I solved this by initially creating a gymnast object for all the gymnasts in the email list and then filtering down from their using the filter function to match this array of gymnasts to their class/scores. There's probably a more efficient way to do this, but since the list of all gymnasts is not very long, this method works fine.

An idea for future enhancement would be to create a web app version. This wouldn't add any additional functionality, but it may make the UI more pleasing and add security by separating access between the email list and the ability to send progress reports.
